1.) This study was conducted to investigate secondary school students’ perceptions’ and ICT usage. A total of 3380 students from 24
public and private schools from four regions in Ghana participated in this study. Descriptive statistics, Analysis of variance were
used to analyze the findings. The study revealed that students’ ICT usage to support learning was low. The analysis showed that
students’ perceived value, expectancy of success and perceived cost were high. Male students value implementing ICT in
learning more positively than female students. Also, public school students value using ICT in classrooms more positively than
private school students. Generally, students’ perceptions of ICT usage were positive. 

APA

Charles, B. A., & Issifu, Y. (2015). Innovation in education: Students’ perceptions of implementing ICT in learning in second-cycle institutions in Ghana. Procedia-Social and Behavioral Sciences, 197, 1512-1519.


2.) The current study aimed at identifying Turkish primary school teachers’ perceptions of school culture regarding ICT integration in education. In addition, the current study was designed to investigate factors that might influence their perceptions. The participants were 1540 primary school teachers. The findings revealed that the teachers’ perceptions regarding school culture in both motivational and technical aspects were not positive. Gender, ownership of a personal computer, Internet access, professional experience, and weekly computer use seemed to play an important role in the perceived school culture regarding ICT integration in education.

APA

Tezci, E. (2011). Turkish primary school teachers’ perceptions of school culture regarding ICT integration. Educational Technology Research and Development, 59(3), 429.


3.) This paper reports on an exploratory investigation of the perceptions of information and communication technology (ICT) as a field of study and work in German secondary schools. A total of 160 students from five secondary schools in Lower Saxony participated in the study in February 2007, and four teachers of the students were interviewed. The investigation is part of the research carried out by the authors within the Griffith University Women in Information Technology (WinIT) project, which has been studying the problem of low female participation since 1995. In this paper we discuss German school students’ (male and female) and their teachers’ views of ICT, its use at school and home, their influences in using technology, and their ideas about working with technology in the future. We drew on the challenges faced and opportunities available to teachers in the study to put this in context. We found that many senior secondary students have not decided what they want to do when they finish school, suggesting that the environment is ripe for them to receive relevant and useful information that may help them to choose to study tertiary ICT courses. By dispelling negative ICT perceptions and allowing students to make an informed choice as to whether to take up a career in ICT, we can hopefully encourage more students into this ever-growing and exciting industry.

APA

Von Hellens, L., Clayton, K., Beekhuyzen, J., & Nielsen, S. H. (2009). Perceptions of ICT careers in German schools: an exploratory study. Journal of Information Technology Education: Research, 8, 211-228.


4.) The aim of this study is to explore students' perceptions of e-learning in a large undergraduate accounting class environment. E-learning technologies are increasingly widespread; however, they are often employed for technology' s sake rather than directed by a pedagogic rationale. This study explores e-learning technology from the student's perspective, using surveys, focus groups, and in-depth interviews. From an exploration of emergent themes, a deeper understanding of the learner's experiences online surfaces. These factors are reported as significant to the success of online course components (for large-group learning) and are contextualised within the specific pedagogic model employed.

APA

Flynn, A., Concannon, F., & Bheacháin, C. N. (2005). Undergraduate students’ perceptions of technology-supported learning: The Case of an accounting class. International Journal on E-Learning, 4(4), 427-444.


5.) Drawing on extensive interview data with 37 participants across six subject areas (maths, science, English, music, modern foreign languages and geography) this paper explores and explains the extent to which subject teachers and their various epistemic communities or subject sub‐cultures negotiate the relationship between ICT and learning in their subject contexts. The study uses Bernstein's (1996 Bernstein, B. 1996. Pedagogy, symbolic control and identity: theory, research and critique, London: Taylor and Francis.
 [Google Scholar]
) conception of ‘the sacred and the profane’ as a heuristic to guide the dynamics of the process. Using a content analysis based on grounded themes, the findings show that with extended and supported use ‘transaction spaces’ emerge where subject teachers begin to negotiate with new technologies thus creating new meanings and accommodations. These changes are evolutionary rather than transformatory with the evidence pointing to a ‘new’ blend of technology and subject taking place; a trend that highlights the centrality of pragmatic pedagogy and the importance of the ‘pedagogic dependent ICT resource’.

APA

John, P. (2005). The sacred and the profane: subject sub‐culture, pedagogical practice and teachers' perceptions of the classroom uses of ICT. Educational Review, 57(4), 471-490.


6.) Education institutions around the world have seen rapid advances in ICT (Information Communication Technology) within the classroom since the mid 90s. Kuwait has realized the need for a high quality education system, and has seen huge increases in government funding for schools over the last 10 years. However, Kuwaits spending on technology and ICT has attracted little research regarding the impact it has had on students and teachers. For this reason, this study aimed to discover how useful ICT is within classes in Kuwait. The research used qualitative research to focus on 14 teachers from three different primary schools in Kuwait. The study focused on the amount of ICT that is used within Kuwaiti schools and the quality of ICT training provided for teachers. The study found that teachers lacked sufficient training in ICT usage as a teaching aid. Findings also revealed that programs provided by the primary schools in Kuwait were too basic and that further investment is required

APA

Alharbi, G. (2012). Primary school teachers' perceptions regarding ICT usage and equipment in Kuwait. Journal of International Education Research, 8(1), 55.


7.) The current study aimed at identifying Turkish primary school teachers’ perceptions of school culture regarding ICT integration in education. In addition, the current study was designed to investigate factors that might influence their perceptions. The participants were 1540 primary school teachers. The findings revealed that the teachers’ perceptions regarding school culture in both motivational and technical aspects were not positive. Gender, ownership of a personal computer, Internet access, professional experience, and weekly computer use seemed to play an important role in the perceived school culture regarding ICT integration in education.

APA

Tezci, E. (2011). Turkish primary school teachers’ perceptions of school culture regarding ICT integration. Educational Technology Research and Development, 59(3), 429.


8.) Although it was widely noted by researchers during the 1980s and 1990s that gender role orientation and gendered stereotyping exert a considerable influence on people’s engagement with technologies, there is little evidence of the influence of such gendered influences on contemporary technology users. The present study is based on a survey of 406 undergraduate students aged between 18 and 39 years conducted to examine whether different aspects of information and communication technology (ICT) use continue to be seen in particularly gendered terms by young adults and what reasons could be identified for any gender stereotyping. Analysis of the survey data show how issues of masculinity and femininity continue to be an important-if perhaps more subtle-influence on how young people perceive ICTs in contemporary society. In all, the findings confirm the continuing persistence of gender stereotypes as a frame of reference for ICTs.

APA

Selwyn, N. (2007). Hi-tech= guy-tech? An exploration of undergraduate students’ gendered perceptions of information and communication technologies. Sex Roles, 56(7-8), 525-536.


9.) Do ICT skills of freshmen change in 6 months at the university? What is the contribution of learning styles (or patterns) to the explanation of the variance in self-perceived ICT skills and the possible change in these skills? And what is the contribution of learning styles and of gender, social class, and ICT course attendance to the explanation of the variance in these skills? To answer these questions, data were collected in a panel research project that recruited 714 freshmen at a large Belgian university. The data show that the ability of the students to maintain a computer and to develop a website improves at the university but not the ability to use the Internet or to apply basic ICT skills. The analyses show that there is a link, albeit weak, between learning styles and self-perceived ICT skills. Learning styles can partially explain differences between groups of students with different characteristics. The data show that having a certain learning style might influence the perception of students of their ICT skill, but learning styles do not allow one to predict the change in the self-perceived ICT skills of the students.

APA

Verhoeven, J. C., Heerwegh, D., & De Wit, K. (2012). First year university students’ self-perception of ICT skills: Do learning styles matter?. Education and Information Technologies, 17(1), 109-133.


10.) The aim of this paper was to investigate students’ perceptions of ICT usage by staff and students at a South African University. A researcher crafted questionnaire-interview (Questaview) was anonymously administered to a randomly selected group of fifty students to enlist their views on the extent to which they and academic staff utilise ICT during learning and teaching. There were a total of 44 usable returns. Data were analysed thematically after interrogating the responses through coding. Results showed that students perceived ‘technology for learning’ to mean a computer. They were satisfied with its use and functionality since commencing their studies. Students also reported that most lecturers do not use ICT for teaching. Students perceived ICT particularly the computer, as impacting positively on their academic success, academic access and other curricular issues. We concluded that despite the challenges such as an underutilisation of other ICT’s by lecturers, the students perceived ICT in their learning as useful. Students’ perceptions in the use of ICT by themselves and their lecturers did not differ much. Moreover, they suggested ways in which lecturers could use more ICT for teaching and learning purposes. On this basis, the paper suggests that universities should sustain their ICT e-learning programmes and training by channelling financial support if student academic performance and quality are to be enhanced. The positive impact of such initiatives makes a strong case for massive investment in e-learning programmes especially among academic staff. 

APA

Makura, A. H. (2014). Students’ perceptions of the use of ICT in a higher education teaching and learning context: The case of a South African University. Mediterranean Journal of Social Sciences, 5(11), 43.


11.) Computers as an educational tool and computer skills as a subject have been utilised and taught in Saudi Arabian secondary schools since 1991. During this period, there have been a number of Saudi studies examining the attitudes of teachers towards computer usage, but little research on the attitudes of the students. Moreover, these studies have not been updated recently despite technological advances in educational technology. The present study reports a questionnaire based survey of Saudi Arabian secondary school student's (boys and girls) usage of ICT. The questionnaire was designed to collect data from students concerning their usage of ICT inside and outside school, and their perceptions towards this usage. The data were gathered from a sample of 270 students (127 boys and 143 girls) drawn from six secondary schools in Riyadh City. Findings indicate a high percentage of computer ownership and access to the Internet among young people in Saudi Arabia. Activities carried out with computers differ between school and home, with Internet based activities more common at home due to lack of Internet access at schools. Students generally shared positive attitudes towards computers, regarding them as having a positive effect on their learning, and want to learn more about them.

APA

Oyaid, A. A. (2010). Secondary Student's Perceptions of Information and Communication Technology and Their Usage of It Inside and Outside of School in Riyadh City, Saudi Arabia. International Journal of Applied Educational Studies, 7(1).


12.) Information and communication technology (ICT) is an increasingly important tool in dental education and practice. This may benefit the students’ personal and professional development. The aim of this study was to investigate the attitudes and perception towards ICT resources and skill among the clinical group of dental students of Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia. A selfadministered questionnaire was developed and pretested. The reliability of questionnaire with Cronbach's coefficient alpha was 0.761. With responded rate of 96.1%, this study revealed that majority of the students reported positive attitudes towards ICT. They also perceived that they have some skills in utilizing the ICT in their study.

APA

Mohamed, A. M., Aik, T. C., Yi, L. P., Abdullah, D., & Dom, T. N. M. (2011). Dental students’ attitudes and perceptions towards ICT resources and skills. Procedia-Social and Behavioral Sciences, 18, 400-403.



13.) This paper examines the issues affecting the implementation of eLearning at a university in Bangkok. eLearning and the use of ICT is playing key role in shaping teaching and learning in Thailand. Its implementation is providing innovative and creative opportunities for knowledge development and ICT technology transfer. This paper shows that there will be a need to engage in higher levels of eLearning systems development in order to create an overall integrated ICT vision and eLearning strategy for the university. The present study draws data from an anonymous questionnaire administered in the International programmes of study at graduate level in a university in Bangkok. There were a total of 22 returns. The data suggests that eLearning is not widely used at the university as it is perceived as less effective; whereas traditional pedagogic practices as well as being widely used is also perceived as being the most effective method. The theoretical and practical implications of the results are discussed. Data is drawn from a small number of academic staff and thus further university-wide research is necessary. This paper critically evaluates the practicalities associated with eLearning in a university experiencing significant changes and assesses its potential in addressing useful eLearning developments. The paper gives a clear insight into the issues surrounding eLearning and addresses some of the implications for longer-term ICT and eLearning developments.

APA

James, P. T. (2008). Academic Staff Perceptions of ICT and eLearning: A Thai HE Case Study. Turkish Online Journal of Educational Technology-TOJET, 7(4), 36-45.


14.) This paper focuses upon describing and understanding the responses of a small case of undergraduate
students (n =30) towards a planned information communication technology (ICT) interaction. The
research was undertaken throughout semester one 2008 and the sample comprised students who were
completing a component of their undergraduate education degree in the second year of study at a Western
Australian university. The students were invited to participate in the pilot study by way of initially
completing a questionnaire. This first phase of the research was completed during the first half of the
semester. The questionnaire was aimed at eliciting the sample’s intentions to use ICT, their attitudes
towards such an interaction, their perceived social pressure to interact with ICT, their perceived control
over their capacity to interact with ICT, their beliefs about the likely consequences of interacting with
ICT, their beliefs about the expectations of others regarding the interaction and their beliefs about the
various factors that potentially would either help or hinder their interaction with ICT. Following the
completion of the questionnaire the students were invited to progress through a fifteen minute ICT
interaction activity on an individual basis. During the activity each student was observed and at the
conclusion of the interaction the students participated in a brief informal interview designed to explore
their reactions to the activity and their overall attitudes towards the ICT interaction. The items in the
questionnaire were designed to gather data on each of the components of the Theory of Planned
Behaviour (TPB) as it pertained to ICT interaction. The TPB as initially designed by Fishbein and Ajzen
(1980) has been used to investigate the influence of beliefs and attitudes towards a range of social and
personal behaviours. As far as can be determined from current research the theory has not yet been
applied to the planned use of ICT. The research was designed as a pilot investigation to explore students’
planned use of ICT. As a result of the quantitative analysis, the instrument will be refined in the second
phase of the study in order to enable a complete causal examination of the factors that impact most
strongly upon students’ behaviour as it relates to ICT interaction. The second phase of the research will
occur in 2009

APA

Siragusa, L., & Dixon, K. C. (2008). Planned behaviour: Student attitudes towards the use of ICT interactions in higher education. Proceedings Ascilite Melbourne, 942-953.


15.) nformation and Communication Technology (ICT) integration in teacher education and teaching practices of teachers is a complicated and challenging issue. As far as pre-service teachers are concerned, this becomes critical because they need to be equipped with the competencies for their future teaching practices. The objective of this study is to identify pre-service teachers' perceptions of ICT integration in teacher education and its association with their teaching practices. A stratified two-stage probability sampling design was used. Firstly, three Turkish state universities with the highest and lowest number of the pre-service teachers were chosen. Secondly, pre-service teachers from the subject domains of Turkish language, social sciences, elementary education mathematics and science were selected. A qualitative method was used in this study. Data were collected from 782 pre-service teachers from open ended questions in a survey and interviews were conducted with 15 participants. Qualitative data were analyzed with thematic coding. The results identified the specific conditions of ICT integration in teacher education and pre-service teachers' perceptions of ICT integration and the associations with their teaching practices.

APA

Aslan, A., & Zhu, C. (2015). Pre-Service Teachers' Perceptions of ICT Integration in Teacher Education in Turkey. Turkish Online Journal of Educational Technology-TOJET, 14(3), 97-110.



16.) This article presents the findings of a survey of 299 Malaysian employers from diverse types of agencies
and organisations, which employ engineering and ICT graduates. The objective of the survey was to explore the
employers’ perceptions of the five most important employability skills they require graduates to possess for them to be
considered as employable in the job market. A 13 item scale of engineering employability skills adopted from the
Engineering Accreditation Council (EAC) manual and the Malaysian Future of Engineering Education Report 2007 was
utilised as the instrument to examine the employers’ perceptions. The findings revealed that problem-solving, tool
handling competency, presentation skills and team working skills feature highly amongst the employers as important
skills demanded from the students. Students are also required to be competent in their use of techniques, skills and
modern tools in their area of expertise, as well as having the drive to acquire and apply knowledge in these areas. These
findings are useful for improving Malaysian universities’ understanding of the employability skills perceived as being
the most important and allowing them to better equip their graduates according to industry requirements

APA

Saad, M. S. M., & Majid, I. A. (2014). Employers’ perceptions of important employability skills required from Malaysian engineering and information and communication technology (ICT) graduates. Global Journal of Engineering Education, 16(3), 110-115.



17.) This study investigates changing patterns in students' use of electronic tools over a four year period, mapping changes in social communications with expectations in formal learning. The data, collected from 2001 to 2004, reflect the views of 2215 university entrants, the majority of whom were aged between 17 and 20 years across a range of disciplines (Business, Science and Engineering) on their first day at university. Although the data was collected prior to the emergence of the contemporary social technologies, it tests an underlying assertion that students' expectations of learning are strongly influenced by their prior experiences. Results show no correlation between the extent of university entrants' use of Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) and their expectations of how they will learn. Despite a dramatic increase in students' use of ubiquitous technologies over a four-year period, their expectation of how they might learn at university remained relatively static over the same timeframe. (Contains 7 tables.)

APA

Littlejohn, A., Margaryan, A., & Vojt, G. (2010). Exploring Students' Use of ICT and Expectations of Learning Methods. Electronic Journal of e-learning, 8(1), 13-20.



18.) – The purpose of this paper is to explore students' perceptions and views of the instructors, in relation to information and communications technology (ICT) education in library and information science (LIS) programs.

Design/methodology/approach
– A questionnaire survey was carried out among students from the two LIS departments in Kuwait. A focus group was conducted with faculty members of the two institutions, who provided qualitative input about the instruction of ICT, needed changes, and relevance of market needs.

Findings
– Participants showed dissatisfaction with the currently available ICT courses in the LIS programs. Students pointed out deficiencies and inadequacies in ICT resources and facilities, and suggested upgrading software and hardware. They appeared to be satisfied with the ICT skills being targeted by LIS programs. They also appeared to be satisfied with the ICT instructors. The study pointed out a need for collaboration with professional forums for continuing education programs and the need for revisions in curricula to introduce more focused courses that meet the needs of the ever‐changing market requirements and give the students access to professional bilingual materials. The faculty members noted the demands of the job market and proposed measures for addressing them through enhanced course content and improved opportunities for hands‐on instruction.

APA

Al-Daihani, S. M. (2011). ICT education in library and information science programs: An analysis of the perceptions of undergraduate students. Library review, 60(9), 773-788.



19.) As a secondary analysis of the SITES 2006 data, the present paper focused on the exploration
of the factors associated with the impact of ICT-use on students’ 21st-century skills as
perceived by teachers, in which students’ 21st-century skills included information-handling
skills, problem-solving skills, self-directed learning skills, collaborative skills,
communication skills, ICT skills, and ability to learn at students’ own pace. In order to predict
and understand teachers’ perceptions of the impact of ICT-use on students’ 21st-century skills,
we proposed a model embracing five factors: (1) teachers’ perceptions on teacher-practice
orientation 21st-century learning, (2) student-practice orientation of 21st-century learning, (3)
pedagogical ICT competence, (4) teachers’ perceptions on the presence of a community of
practice on professional collaboration, and (5) teacher-related obstacles in using ICT. Results
of the path analysis revealed three direct effects on student-impact, namely teacher-practice
orientation, student-practice orientation, and pedagogical ICT competence. Findings revealed
that teacher perception on student-practice orientation was the strongest predictor of
student-impact than other factors. The direct effects of teacher-practice orientation,
student-practice orientation, and pedagogical ICT competence on student-impact were
positive. The pedagogical ICT competence had direct as well as indirect effects on
student-impact. However, the effects of pedagogical ICT competence on the mediated factors
teacher-practice orientation and student-practice orientation were negative. The indirect
effects of community of practice on professional collaboration and teacher-related obstacles in
using ICT on student-impact were mediated through teacher-practice orientation,
student-practice orientation, or pedagogical ICT competence. The effects of community of
practice on professional collaboration on all mediated factors were positive whereas the
effects of teacher-related obstacles in using ICT on all mediated factors were negative. Finally,
implications for teacher professional development are discussed

APA

Yuen, A. H., Lee, M. W., Law, N., & Chan, A. (2008). Factors predicting impact of ICT-use on students: An exploration of teachers’ perceptions. The proceedings of IRC.



20.) The survey presented in this article examines teachers' perspectives of the effectiveness of the European Pedagogic ICT Licence pilot test in Greece. A total of 51 primary and secondary education teachers participated in the study, immediately following the blended training course. Data were gathered using both quantitative and qualitative research techniques such us a questionnaire, a semi-constructed interview, and a focus group discussion. Five main scales, based on the current online and blended learning literature, were identified to assess the effectiveness of the blended training process. These scales were (a) the learning process, (b) the facilitator's support, (c) the material, (d) the collaboration, and (e) the technology. In addition, a scale of satisfaction was included to measure the overall teachers' perception of the course effectiveness. The findings indicated that the teachers were satisfied with both their participation to the course and the knowledge they acquired from the training. The results also emerged a number of issues that would improve the effectiveness of the EPICT course.

APA

Mouzakis, C. (2008). Teachers’ perceptions of the effectiveness of a blended learning approach for ICT teacher training. Journal of Technology and Teacher Education, 16(4), 461-482.

21.) As technology continues to influence many aspects of our social and work lives, it is important that school experiences equip students the skills and knowledge that will enable them to develop into effective independent, creative, and lifelong learners to cope with the influx of changes. Given that teachers play a key role in the effective use of technology in education, there is a need to ensure that teacher education programs prepare teachers for the effective integration of ICT in the classrooms. We believe that there is a need to adopt a student-centered learning framework to design our ICT based Student-Centred Learning (SCL) curriculum for all pre-service teachers. In this paper, we presents parts of the findings from a curriculum review which evaluated 483 pre-service teachers’ overall satisfaction level towards an ICT based SCL course. We also provide some recommendations to the ICT curriculum based on the results found.

APA

Lee, C. B., Teo, T. K. G., Chai, C. S., Choy, D., Tan, A., & Seah, J. H. M. (2007). Closing the gap: Pre-service teachers' perceptions of an ICT based, student centred learning curriculum.

22.) Problem solving is characteristic of mathematical activity and an important way of developing
mathematical knowledge. A main purpose of mathematics teaching and learning is to develop the ability to solve a
wide variety of complex mathematics problems. However, the process of problem solving in mathematics has not
been given the proper recognition, probably due to the fact that teachers themselves are not comfortable with
problem solving. As a result, teachers do not teach the process and technique of problem solving as an integral part
of mathematics learning process. This paper will look into student teachers’ beliefs about problem solving and how
these beliefs change with the use of Information Technology. This move is actually an effort to integrate
Information Communication Technology in a Mathematics Teaching Methods Course with the intention of changing
the student teachers’ beliefs and perception about problem solving so that they can become better problem solvers
themselves and also to encourage students to develop a broad range of problem solving strategies. 

APA

Rahman, S. A., Ghazali, M., & Ismail, Z. (2003, September). Integrating ICT in mathematics teaching methods course: How has ICT changed student teacher’s perception about problem solving. In The Mathematics Education into the 21st Century Project Proceedings of the International Conference The Decidable and the Undecidable in Mathematics Education, Czech Republic.

23.) The paper reports on a survey undertaken amongst first year students who were taking introductory
courses in departments within Schools of IT at two South African universities. The purpose of the
survey was to understand factors influencing career choice and how educationalists could use this to
encourage enrollment in computer-related degree programmes. This paper considers association of
values with chosen careers, other career outcomes that students consider important and their
perceptions regarding personal characteristics of ICT students. The responses of students who intend
taking computer-related courses up to third year and those who are taking other majors are
compared. Gender is also considered. Significant differences were discovered and are associated with
a variety of different theories that are broadly related to personal characteristics and personality
(Hofstede’s cultural dimensions, Myers-Briggs Type Indicator and the Five Factors Model). An INTJ
profile for males and an INFJ profile for female students intending to major in computer-related
courses seem to emerge. Low Power Distance, low Uncertainty Avoidance, and high Masculinity are
tentatively proposed as cultural dimensions of the ICT career culture.
 Keywords: computing education, cultural dimensions, personality traits. 

APA

Alexander, P. M., & Pieterse, V. (2010, June). Indications of Personality Trait Difference between ICT and Other Students. In ECIS (p. 60).



24.) This research was conducted to investigate the Saudi science teachers’ perception of the
use of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) tools to enhance teaching and
learning and undertake a small and groundwork examination of these teachers current use
of ICT.
It draws on the interpretive paradigm (Cohen & Manion, 1994), where the focus is on
how people interpret and make sense of their world. From this interpretive perspective
the beliefs of Saudi secondary school science teachers, in relation to the benefits of ICT,
their current use of ICT and their perceived needs for improvement in the use of ICT in
the classroom were investigated.
Saudi secondary schools science teachers from both girls’ and boys’ schools in three
different types of schools have been involved in this study. There were 28 government
schools (9 girls’ and 19 boys’ schools), four small schools in rented premises (2 girls’
and 2 boys’ schools) and four Aramco schools (1 girls’ and 3 boys’ schools). These
schools were in different districts: Aldammam city, Alkhobar city, Aldahran city,
Alqateaf city and Sufwa city. The teachers were asked to voluntarily participate in the
study and 131 teachers out of 200 (86 male and 45 female, 65 %) completed the
questionnaire. Analysis of the data, together with the relevant literature builds a picture
of the use of ICT in science education. Providing ICT hardware and software resources to
a school is not enough to ensure significant developments in use of ICT for teaching and
learning in Saudi science classrooms. Access to working ICT continues to be an issue for
these teachers. Although teachers identified many benefits to teachers and students from
using ICT and had made individual efforts to develop their use of ICT for admin
planning and lesson preparation, they also identified barriers. These barriers focused on a
lack of appropriate professional development and technical support.
The findings have implications for future development in the area of ICT. It is expected
that the results of the research will guide future research and development in the country
and outline the importance of the use of information and communication technology in
education for teachers, students, parents and decision-makers. It will contribute
information towards decision-making and planning in future projects

APA

Almaghlouth, O. A. D. (2008). Saudi secondary school science teachers' perceptions of the use of ICT tools to support teaching and learning (Doctoral dissertation, The University of Waikato).



25.) We investigated high-school students’ perceptions of the relationship between non-academic information and communications technology (NA-ICT) use and academic achievements. A sample of 533 Israeli students responded to surveys on ICT use habits, achievements, and the relationship between the two. A negative correlation between reported NA-ICT use time and reported scores was found. The idea of the negative effect of NA-ICT use on achievements was accepted by the majority of students, regardless of their academic achievements. However, when asked about the effect that reducing NA-ICT use time might have on their own grades, the majority of students found on the middle levels of the school performance scale appeared to believe that limiting NA-ICT usage will help them improve their grades. In contrast, students found on both ends of the scale (high-achieving and low-achieving alike) did not necessarily see a decrease in NA-ICT usage as beneficial. We discuss a possible explanation relying on Covington’s (1992) Self Esteem Theory and the entailed practical implications of our study.

APA

Ballantine*, J. A., & Larres, P. M. (2004). A critical analysis of students' perceptions of the usefulness of the case study method in an advanced management accounting module: the impact of relevant work experience. Accounting Education, 13(2), 171-189.



26.) The use of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) has become a major
driving force in transforming education throughout the world. The usage of ICT in
Pakistan has increased many folds in the last 10 years. The latest educational policy of
the Government of Pakistan has stressed on using ICT in schools. The curriculum
documents have also suggested teachers to integration ICT in their classrooms
teaching and learning processes. This study focuses on the use of ICT in schools of
Pakistan and it is restricted to four major cities of Pakistan. The study investigates
students’ and teachers’ use of ICT in their everyday life. The study also explores
students’ views of their teachers using ICT in classroom teaching learning and
assessment. The data were collected using survey questionnaire from students
studying in secondary schools (classes 7, 8, 9, 10& 11.) and teachers teaching to
secondary classes. The schools were invited to participate in this study. The study
finds that students and teachers have access to computers in schools and at home and
they use computer for different purposes, such as, entertainment, communication, and
education. The study also highlights differences amongst teachers and students about
what technology to be used in classroom and for what purposes. The study discovers
two opposite views. On the one hand teachers believe they use ICT effectively while
on the other hand students disagree with their teacher’s idea of ICT integration in
classroom.

APA

Khokhar, A. J., & Javaid, S. (2016). Students and Teachers Perceptions of ICT Use in Classroom: Pakistani Classrooms. In The Asian Conference on Technology in the Classroom.



27.) Information Communication Technology (ICT) plays a crucial role in the effectiveness, efficiency and service
delivery of any institution. ICT has also been credited with the potential to integrate world economies thus
demolishing the barriers created by time and distance. However, despite its role in improving service delivery, it
adoption in secondary schools in Kenya has remained low and limited. The study adopted a descriptive research
design approach and targeted all the public and private secondary schools in Thika district in Kenya. The
findings shows that the pace of ICT adoption in both public and private secondary schools in Kenya is very slow,
as characterized by: user complexity perception, inadequate IT literacy, lack of psychological and technical
readiness and insufficient policy guidelines. The paper concludes that inadequate technical and psychological
preparedness has belated perception change which has hampered technology acceptance and use in secondary
schools. This study recommends that; Psychological and technical skill readiness of teachers needs to be
addressed through increasing investment in ICT facilities, resources and training so as to reverse the slow rate of
ICT adoption trend and improve the pace of diffusion in secondary schools.


APA

Nchunge, D. M., Sakwa, M., & Mwangi, W. (2012). User‘s Perception on ICT adoption for Education Support in Schools: A Survey of Secondary School Teacher‘s in Thika District Kenya. International Journal of Humanities and Social Science, 2(10), 17-29.



28.) World Class Arena is a British government initiative to assess and develop the skills of gifted and talented children. Part of the strategy is to use computer-based tests. Students attempt tasks that require them to engage in higher-order problem solving, often in interactive, realistic, contexts. This study reports observations and interviews in schools. Students found tasks engaging and motivating, despite the unfamiliarity of the problem types and the challenging nature of the items. Students had no problems working with computers. They were sometimes distracted by attractive graphics, and sometimes used poor heuristics when attempting tasks. The study provides evidence that a computer environment can provide new ways to assess the problem solving skills of highly able students.

APA

Richardson, M., Baird, J. A., Ridgway, J., Ripley, M., Shorrocks-Taylor, D., & Swan, M. (2002). Challenging minds? Students’ perceptions of computer-based World Class Tests of problem solving. Computers in Human Behavior, 18(6), 633-649.


29.) This study focused on identifying EFL teachers’ perceptions on the use of ICT in their teaching. A number of 42 EFL teachers from two state universities in Indonesia were involved. A closed-ended questionnaire based on the Technology Acceptance Model (TAM) (Davis, Bagozzi, and Warshaw, 1989) was distributed and interviews were conducted. The findings revealed that 31 teacher users were found to have high motivation to use ICT because they believe that it is important in ELT as it makes learning enjoyable, interesting, and effective, among other constructive outcomes. Meanwhile, even though the other 11 teacher non-users were aware that the use of ICT is becoming more essential nowadays, their motivation remains low. Their barriers were rooted from the lack of training and support, either financial or non-financial, from their work environment. Therefore, these barriers should become a priority for institutions to overcome, considering that ICT provides unlimited sources of information in ELT and teachers must be prepared to face new challenges in education and technology that are present today.

APA

Silviyanti, T. M., & Yusuf, Y. Q. (2015). EFL Teachers' Perceptions on Using ICT in Their Teaching: To Use or to Reject?. Teaching English with Technology, 15(4), 29-43.


30.) This paper focuses on differences of attitudes related to information and communication
technologies among Czech university students. Students’ attitudes were evaluated summatively and
with respect to gender, grade, and residence. The sample consisted of a total of 316 university
students. The data analysis included factor analysis, ANCOVA, ANOVA, and t-test. The factor analysis
yielded five dimensions: 1) Influence of ICT on teaching process, 2) Influence of ICT on human body
and environment, 3) Using of ICT in teaching, 4) School and ICT, 5) ICT as didactic equipment. As a
result, male students, sophomores, and students living in town showed more positive attitudes in
comparison to other respective groups.

APA

Silviyanti, T. M., & Yusuf, Y. Q. (2015). EFL Teachers' Perceptions on Using ICT in Their Teaching: To Use or to Reject?. Teaching English with Technology, 15(4), 29-43.


31.) This study was designed to understand how upper secondary school students in Cambodia perceive the use of computers and the Internet. Data were collected from students in three urban upper secondary schools (n=1,137) in Cambodia using questionnaires. The data indicate that the more exposure a Cambodian student had to computers and the Internet the more favorable their attitudes were toward these technologies. Additionally, students with limited exposure to these technologies were more likely to have increased anxiety about using such technologies. The findings are discussed using Rogers’ conceptualization of the Diffusion of Innovations theory. This study is the first of its kind aimed at understanding the perceptions and use of digital technology by Cambodian upper secondary students.

APA

Richardson, J., Nash, J., & Flora, K. (2014). Unsystematic technology adoption in Cambodia: Students’ perceptions of computer and internet use. International Journal of Education and Development using ICT, 10(2), 63-76.


32.) 




